Azure Virtual Network App (#4982)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/integrations/microsoft-azure/azure-virtual-network.md

[Azure Virtual Network](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-network/virtual-networks-overview) is a service that provides the fundamental building block for your private network in Azure enabling many types of Azure resources to securely communicate with each other, using the internet, and on-premises networks. This integration helps in monitoring the round trip time, failed pings, inbound dropped packets, and inbound bytes.

> ## Logs and Metric types

Reviewer: We've changed our header style to sentence case

```suggestion
## Logs and metric types
```

* Metrics collection using our [HTTP Logs and Metrics source](/docs/send-data/collect-from-other-data-sources/azure-monitoring/collect-metrics-azure-monitor/) via Azure Functions deployed using the ARM template.

You must explicitly enable diagnostic settings and network flow logs for each Virtual Network you want to monitor. You can forward metrics to the same event hub provided they satisfy the limitations and permissions as described [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/diagnostic-settings?tabs=portal#destination-limitations).

When you configure the event hubs source or HTTP source, plan your source category to ease the querying process. A hierarchical approach allows you to make use of wildcards. For example: `Azure/VirtualNetwork/Metrics` and `Azure/VirtualNetwork/Logs`.

### Configure metrics collection

In this section, you will configure a pipeline for shipping metrics from Azure Monitor to an Event Hub, on to an Azure Function, and finally to an HTTP Source on a hosted collector in Sumo Logic.

> 1. Create hosted collector and tag tenant_name field
>    <img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/microsoft-azure/Azure-Storage-Tag-Tenant-Name.png')} alt="Azure Storage Tag Tenant Name" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create hosted collector and tag `tenant_name` field. <br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/microsoft-azure/Azure-Storage-Tag-Tenant-Name.png')} alt="Azure Storage Tag Tenant Name" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />
```

2. [Configure an HTTP Source](/docs/send-data/collect-from-other-data-sources/azure-monitoring/collect-metrics-azure-monitor/#step-1-configure-an-http-source).
2. [Configure and deploy the ARM Template](/docs/send-data/collect-from-other-data-sources/azure-monitoring/collect-metrics-azure-monitor/#step-2-configure-azure-resources-using-arm-template).
3. [Export metrics to Event Hub](/docs/send-data/collect-from-other-data-sources/azure-monitoring/collect-metrics-azure-monitor/#step-3-export-metrics-for-a-particular-resource-to-event-hub). Perform below steps for each storage service (blob,queue,table and file) and each storage account that you want to monitor.
   * Choose `Stream to an event hub` as destination.
   * Select `AllMetrics`.
   * Use the Event hub namespace created by the ARM template in Step 2 above. You can create a new Event hub or use the one created by ARM template. You can use the default policy `RootManageSharedAccessKey` as the policy name.

> 4. Tag the location field in the source with right location value.
>    <img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/microsoft-azure/Azure-Storage-Tag-Location.png')} alt="Azure Storage Tag Location" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="500" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Tag the location field in the source with right location value.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/microsoft-azure/Azure-Storage-Tag-Location.png')} alt="Azure Storage Tag Location" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="500" />
```

### Configure logs collection

#### Configuration requirements

Before you begin configuring Virtual Network Flow Log collection, make sure the following environment prerequisites are met:

* Your Storage Account must be of type General-purpose v2 or Blob storage.
* Your Network Security Group and Storage Account should be in same resource location.
* You also need to have Microsoft Authorization/role Assignments/write permissions, so they should be a "User Access Administrator" or "Owner".

Resource group names should not contains underscores (`_`).

#### Step 1: Configure Azure Storage Account

> In this step you configure a storage account to which you will export monitoring data for your Azure service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this step, you'll configure a storage account to export monitoring data for your Azure service.
```

   If you have a storage account that you want to use for this purpose, make a note of its resource group, storage account name, then proceed to [step 2](#step-2-configure-an-http-source).

#### Step 2: Configure an HTTP Source

This section demonstrates how to configure an HTTP source to receive logs from the Azure function.

To configure an HTTP source for Azure, do the following:
1. Select a hosted collector where you want to configure the HTTP source. If desired, create a new hosted collector, as described on [Configure a Hosted Collector](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/configure-hosted-collector).
2. Configure an HTTP source, as described on [HTTP Logs and Metrics Source](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/http-source/logs-metrics). Make a note of the URL for the source, you will need it in the next step.
3. In **Advanced Options for Logs**, under **Timestamp Format**, click **Specify a format** and enter the following:
   * Specify Format as epoch
   * Specify Timestamp locator as `\"time\": (.*),`

#### Step 3: Configure Azure Resources using ARM template

> To deploy the ARM template-based Blob Storage collection, refer to step 3 of [Collect Logs from Azure Blob Storage(block blobs)](/docs/send-data/collect-from-other-data-sources/azure-blob-storage/block-blob/collect-logs#step-3-configure-azure-resources-using-arm-template).
> If you want to collect only flow logs from the storage account then you can add the filter `/blobServices/default/containers/insights-logs-flowlogflowevent/`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To deploy the ARM template-based Blob Storage collection, refer to step 3 of [Collect Logs from Azure Blob Storage(block blobs)](/docs/send-data/collect-from-other-data-sources/azure-blob-storage/block-blob/collect-logs#step-3-configure-azure-resources-using-arm-template). If you want to collect only flow logs from the storage account, you can add the filter `/blobServices/default/containers/insights-logs-flowlogflowevent/`.
```

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/microsoft-azure/azure-virtual-network/networkflowlogs-template-deployment.png')} alt="Configure ARM Template for Azure Blob Storage(block blobs) collection" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />

#### Step 4: Enable Virtual Network flow logs via the Azure Portal

Follow the steps detailed in the [Microsoft Azure Virtual Network documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/network-watcher/vnet-flow-logs-portal#create-a-flow-log) to enable the flow logs to point to the storage account you configured in the [Configure Azure Storage Account](#step-1-configure-azure-storage-account) section. You can select any target resources (available options are: Virtual network, Subnet, and Network interface) based on your requirements.

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/microsoft-azure/azure-virtual-network/virtualnetworkflowlogs.png')} alt="Configure Virtual Network Flow Logs" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />

> #### Activity Logs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Activity logs
```

> To collect activity logs, follow the instructions [here](/docs/integrations/microsoft-azure/audit). Do not perform this step in case you are already collecting activity logs for a subscription.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To collect activity logs, follow the instructions [here](/docs/integrations/microsoft-azure/audit). Skip this step if you are already collecting activity logs for a subscription.
```
